Add files via upload (#1695)
dhis2/dhis2-docs: src/user/configure-programs-in-the-maintenance-app.md

> page](http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-jexl/reference/syntax.html)
> to learn how you can create more sophisticated expressions

## Setting up new Program disaggregation Mappings { #program_disaggregation_mapping } 

## The Concept

> In DHIS2 v42 there is now added the ability to assign Disaggregation Category Combinations to a Program Indicator and create a mapping between the program data and each category option contained in the combination. This creates a relationship between the tracker and aggregate data models which allows for analysing individual data in the same way and alongside aggregated data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DHIS2 v42 introduces the ability to assign Disaggregation Category Combinations to a Program Indicator and create a mapping between the program data and each category option contained in the combination. This creates a relationship between the tracker and aggregate data models which allows for analysing individual data in the same way and alongside aggregated data.
```

![Program links to Category](resources/images/program/Program_to_category.png){ .center width=30% }
![tracker and Aggregate Models](resources/images/program/Tracker_to_aggregate_model.png){ .center width=30% }

The Program Indicator Disaggregation mappings, defined at the Program level, provide a connection between the two data models within DHIS2. This ultimately allows a user to create disaggregated views of program data within the Data Visualizer using a single Program Indicator where previously one for each disaggregation was needed.

> ![Table Example](resources/images/program/Table_Example.png){ .center width=30% }

Reviewer: I feel like the 30% makes these too small on the final documentation. Also the .centre is not needed as images with captions will be centred by default - see https://docs.dhis2.org/en/implement/support-and-documentation/dhis2-documentation-guide.html#using-images

```suggestion
![Program links to Category](resources/images/program/Program_to_category.png){ width=60% }
![tracker and Aggregate Models](resources/images/program/Tracker_to_aggregate_model.png){ width=60% }

The Program Indicator Disaggregation mappings, defined at the Program level, provide a connection between the two data models within DHIS2. This ultimately allows a user to create disaggregated views of program data within the Data Visualizer using a single Program Indicator where previously one for each disaggregation was needed.

![Table Example](resources/images/program/Table_Example.png){ width=60% }
```

1. Install or update the new Maintenance app (Preview)

>     If the your instance does not already have the new version of the maintenance app installed go to the App Management App and search for Maintenance in the App Hub and install the app. If you already have it installed, then you should update the app to the latest version. Updates to this app are continuously released so it is good to make sure that you are using the most recent release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If your instance does not already have the new version of the maintenance app installed go to the App Management App and search for Maintenance in the App Hub and install the app. If you already have it installed, then you should update the app to the latest version. Updates to this app are continuously released so it is good to make sure that you are using the most recent release.
```

7. Under the Disaggregation categories section you should see both of the categories from the combination added as suggestion. Click **Add category** for both both **Gender** and **U5y**

    ![](resources/images/program/Disaggregation_Mappings.png)

## Create the category mappings

8. In the text field under each Category enter an expression using the Program Data Elements and Attributes that defines the category. The expression uses the same syntax as the Filter section of the Program Indicator creation screen.  It is recommended to open a Program Indicator within the Program you are mapping, use the Filter screen to construct the expression and then copy it into this field. This allows you to use the inbuilt expression validation of the Program Indicator filter builder.
   [Program Indicator functions and Variale operators](https://docs.dhis2.org/en/use/user-guides/dhis-core-version-242/configuring-the-system/programs.html#program_indicator_functions_variables_operators)

    ![](resources/images/program/Disaggregation_Mappings_Expanded.png)

>     ![](resources/images/program/Program_Indicator_Filter_Expression.png){ .center width=30% }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![](resources/images/program/Program_Indicator_Filter_Expression.png){ .center width=60% }
```

    This example is linking the value selected in the **Gender** data element in the Program to the category option. Since the Option set in this case is a text field the expression is set to match the text ‘Female’. The next example for age shows a different way to define the relationship.

    ![](resources/images/program/PI_Disaggregation_Gender_Mapping.png)

    To add the mapping for the Under 5 years and 5 years and above, since it is a numerical field you can use the operators `>` `>=` `<` `<=` `==` `!=` to define the relationship

    ![](resources/images/program/PI_Disaggregation_Age_Mapping.png)

> 10. When mappings for all the category options click Save and exit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. When mappings for all the category options are complete, click Save and exit
```

11. Open Data Visualizer, first let’s look at how these data were previously displayed. To do this create a visualisation to show the data of the 5 existing Program indicators with the built in disaggregations shown below.

>     ![](resources/images/program/DV_Before.png){ .center width=30% }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![](resources/images/program/DV_Before.png){ .center width=60% }
```
